.TH BAT-NGINX-HELPER 1 "2025-07-02" "bat-nginx-helper 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bat-nginx-helper \- Manage NGINX virtual hosts: create, remove, configure SSL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bat-nginx-helper.sh
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script manages NGINX virtual hosts via command line or configuration files.

It supports creation and removal of sites, auto-generation of SSL certificates,
addition to /etc/hosts, and firewall configuration.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-vhost \fIvhost\fR
Virtual host name (required).
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-port \fIport\fR
Listening port (e.g., 80 or 443).
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-domain \fIdomain\fR
Domain suffix (default: local).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-ssl \fIssl_mode\fR
SSL mode. Default is autosign (self-signed certificate).
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-remove \fImode\fR
Remove mode: 1 for config only, 2 for config, data, and SSL.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-overwrite
Overwrite existing site configuration (default: disabled).
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-conf \fIfile\fR
Use configuration file for options.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable debug mode (not implemented).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help and exit.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
Create a new HTTPS site on port 443:

.nf
$ ./bat-nginx-helper.sh -v mysite -p 443
.fi

Remove site and associated data:

.nf
$ ./bat-nginx-helper.sh -r data -v mysite
.fi

Use external configuration file:

.nf
$ ./bat-nginx-helper.sh -c ./postinstall.d/20-nginx.conf
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/www/<vhost>/html
Webroot directory.
.TP
.B /var/www/<vhost>/logs
Logs directory.
.TP
.B /etc/nginx/sites-available/<vhost>
NGINX site configuration file.
.TP
.B /etc/hosts
Hosts file updated with virtual host entries.
.TP
.B /etc/ssl/<vhost>.crt, /etc/ssl/<vhost>.key
Self-signed SSL certificate and key.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
Bash 4.0 or newer, nginx, openssl, sed, grep.

.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, non-zero on failure or invalid arguments.

.SH AUTHOR
Hervé Pineau
<https://github.com/hervep530>

.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0

